Update usaco-647.mdx (#4590)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/gold/usaco-647.mdx

Note: The video solution might not be the same as other solutions. Code in C++.
<YouTube id="OdHxOYICx-o" />

## Explanation

> Consider a range $A[i..j]$. Since elements need to be adjacent to be merged and each new element will originate from a subarray, we can think about the subarrays of $A[i..j]$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider a range $A[i..j]$. Since elements need to be adjacent to be merged and each new element will originate from a series of merges on a subarray, we can think about the subarrays of $A[i..j]$.
```

> Let us define $dp[i][j]$ as the subarray of $A$ (with $i$ and $j$ inclusive and 0-based) such that $dp[i][j]$ is the element it can be merged into as a single element. If it cannot be merged into a single element, let it be \(-1\). For a $k$ from $i$ to $j-1$ inclusive, we can check for the following transitions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let us define $dp[i][j]$ as the subarray of $A$ (with $i$ and $j$ inclusive and 0-based) such that $dp[i][j]$ is the element that can be merged into as a single element. If it cannot be merged into a single element, let it be \(-1\). For $k$ from $i$ to $j-1$ inclusive, we can check for the following transitions:
```

1. If $i == j$, $dp[i][j] = a[i]$ (base case).
2. Otherwise, if $dp[i][k] \neq -1$ and $dp[i][k] == dp[k+1][j]$, then $dp[i][j] = dp[i][k] + 1$.

> If we find two equal and adjacent ranges, we can merge them for a value of $1$ plus the value of either of the two ranges. It can also be helpful to notice that a range can only merge into a particular number. Hence, it is not necessary to write the transitions as $dp[i][j] = \max(dp[i][j], dp[i][k] + 1)$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we find two equal and adjacent ranges, we can merge them for a value of $1$ plus the value of either of the two ranges. It can also be helpful to notice that a range can only merge into a unique number. Hence, it is not necessary to write the transitions as $dp[i][j] = \max(dp[i][j], dp[i][k] + 1)$.
```

Note: The video solution might not be the same as other solutions. Code in C++.
<YouTube id="OdHxOYICx-o" />

## Explanation

> Consider a range $A[i..j]$ and think about the ways in which we can proceed. Since elements need to be adjacent to be merged into one larger element, and the elements we are merging could in return be the result of a merging process of a subarray, it is natural to think about subarrays of the subarray $A[i..j]$. Along with the constraint on $N$ being less than 248, this hints towards range DP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Consider a range $A[i..j]$ and think about how we can proceed. Since elements need to be adjacent to be merged into one larger element, and the elements we are merging could in return be the result of a merging process of a subarray, it is natural to think about subarrays of the subarray $A[i..j]$. Along with the constraint on $N$ being less than 248, this hints towards range DP.
```

> Since elements need to be adjacent to be merged into one larger element, and the elements we are merging could in return be the result of a merging process of a subarray, it is natural to think about subarrays of the subarray $A[i..j]$.

seems like a long-winded way of saying "Since elements need to be adjacent to be merged and each new element will originate from a subarray, we can think about the subarrays of $A[i...j]$"? 

@SansPapyrus683 wdyt 👀

> Let us define $dp[i][j]$ as the subarray of $A$ (with $i$ and $j$ inclusive and 0-based) such that $dp[i][j]$ is the element it can be merged into as a single element. If it cannot be merged into a single element, let it be \(-1\). For an iterator $k$ ranging from $i$ to $j-1$, we can check for the following transitions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let us define $dp[i][j]$ as the subarray of $A$ (with $i$ and $j$ inclusive and 0-based) such that $dp[i][j]$ is the element it can be merged into as a single element. If it cannot be merged into a single element, let it be \(-1\). For an $k$ from $i$ to $j-1$ inclusive, we can check for the following transitions:
```

1. If $i == j$, $dp[i][j] = a[i]$ (base case).
2. Otherwise, if $dp[i][k] \neq -1$ and $dp[i][k] == dp[k+1][j]$, then $dp[i][j] = dp[i][k] + 1$.

> We are looking for two adjacent ranges which can be turned into the same single element, which can then be merged to form a bigger range whose value, will be 1 plus the value of either of the two ranges. If we find such ranges we can set $dp[i][j]$ as 1 plus the value of those ranges that are equal. It can be helpful to notice that a range that can be merged into a single element will only merge into a particular number. Hence, it is not necessary to write the transitions as $dp[i][j] = \max(dp[i][j], dp[i][k] + 1)$, as it can only be one number, if it cannot be merged it will remain as $-1$.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If we find two ranges that are equal and adjacent, we can merge them for a value of 1 plus the value of either of the two ranges. It can also be helpful to notice that a range can only merge into a particular number. Hence, it is not necessary to write the transitions as $dp[i][j] = \max(dp[i][j], dp[i][k] + 1)$.
```

I think this section can be shortened quite a bit without hurting the readability. Let me know what you think.

Author: Yup that works, Ill make sure to make things more concise.

> For every range $i..j$, we are checking if it can be merged into a single element or not, which can be determined by considering parts of the range that can be turned into the same number. Then set $dp[i][j]$ as 1 plus the value of those ranges that are equal. It can be helpful to notice that a range that can be merged into a single element will only merge into a particular number. Hence, it is not necessary to write the transitions as $dp[i][j] = \max(dp[i][j], dp[i][k] + 1)$, as it can only be one number, if at all.

Reviewer: ```It can be helpful to notice that a range that can be merged into a single element will only merge into a particular number. Hence, it is not necessary to write the transitions as $dp[i][j] = \max(dp[i][j], dp[i][k] + 1)$, as it can only be one number, if at all.```

im not really understanding this part

Reviewer 2: I think the wording is a bit confusing, could you add an example (?)

Author: Okay so imagine a range of 1 1 2 1 1 2, by doing the operations correctly, this range will only get converted to 2 2 2 2 then 3 3 then 4. What I am saying is that when a range i..j gets converted to a single number, it can only be one number, which is 4, there is no other number it can end up to be if it's merging up to be one number. The if at all part means that if the range is not mergeable into one element, it will be -1, which is the default dp initialisation.
This part may seem obvious but

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>

using namespace std;

int main() {
	freopen("248.in", "r", stdin);
	freopen("248.out", "w", stdout);

	int n;
	cin >> n;

	vector<int> a(n);
	for (int i = 0; i < n; ++i) { cin >> a[i]; }

	// dp[i][j] = final element the range i..j can be merged into a single
	// element otherwise it's -1 if it cannot be merged into a single element
	vector<vector<int>> dp(n, vector<int>(n, -1));

	int ans = 0;
	for (int i = n - 1; i >= 0; --i) {
		for (int j = i; j < n; ++j) {
			if (i == j) {
				dp[i][j] = a[i];
			} else {

> 				for (int k = i; k < j; ++k) {

Reviewer 3: use the previous loop variable names, they were better

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>

using namespace std;
using i64 = long long;

void setIO(string name = "") {
	if (!name.empty()) {
		freopen((name + ".in").c_str(), "r", stdin);
		freopen((name + ".out").c_str(), "w", stdout);
	}

> }

Reviewer 2: just move your freopen into the main function and delete setIO

int main() {
	setIO("248");
	int n;
	cin >> n;
	vector<int> a(n);

> 	for (int i = 0; i < n; ++i) cin >> a[i];

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	for (int i = 0; i < n; ++i) {
		cin >> a[i];
	}
```

use braces here and elsewhere in the code

	vector<vector<int>> dp(

> 	    n, vector<int>(n, -1));  // dp[i][j] = final element the range i..j can

Reviewer 2: this doesn't need to be split into two lines

	                             // be merged into as a single element, -1 if it

> 	                             // cannot be merged into a single element

Reviewer 2: condense into one/two line comment. lines can be up to 80 characters!
